**memo Waldo-200911.md**

This memo outlines the conventions we will try to follow with respect to our use of github.

#Github Conventions#

Git is the tool we will be using to control our source code, in particular the github.com account jimwaldo/TwitterResearch2020. While pretty much everyone in CS (and beyond) know how to use github to do basic version control, when working in a team it is important that we share a common set of practices to insure that no one steps on the work of anyone else. This memo is mean to lay out some of those common practices.

Note that these practices are not the only way to use github for the purposes of insuring code harmony within a team. But they are practices that I've found work well. More important than having the  **right** set of practices (I'm not sure there is such a set) it is important to have a **shared** set of practices.

####Multiple Repositories

One of the advantages of Git is that there are multiple repositories that can be shared. For this project, we can think of three distinct repositories:
1. The shared repository in Github. This is where we will interchange code, and where you will keep snapshots of your local repositories which is where you will do your work. The master of this repository is where the most recent code resides.
2. The **Code** repository on the shared Google drive. This is where the code that gathers our data runs, and can also be used to run analysis code. **You should never make changes to this repository directly.** This is meant to be a mirror of the master held on the github repository. Any changes made here will be blown away the next time this is updated from the github repo.
3. A local workspace. This should be a clone of the github repo, kept somewhere on your local disk, where you can do your work (see below for more suggestions). You should not be using the shared, google-drive workspace for your local workspace.

#### Local Workflow

The following workflow is meant to allow you to do nearly all of your merging on your local repository before either merging with the master or issuing a pull request. This is a process that protects the master so that it always works. In industry (other than startups, which are only sort-of industry) breaking the mainline is a pretty major sin, so it is good to learn how to avoid this.

What follows doesn't talk about the interface you use for git. All of these can be done with the command line version of git, or with the various guis that make git easier to use. I personally jump from one to the other; I find the pycharm interface reasonably good, but also use the github desktop client, and the command line.

Even on your local machine, it is good to keep one or more branches off of the copy of the master to do your code work. Say you want to work on some code that will do some analysis or be a more basic tool; you should create a branch off of your local master for that work. This lets you pull any changes to the github master into your local master, and then merge those changes into the branch you are working on. It is a good practice, at the beginning of any coding session, to switch back to your local master branch, do a pull from the github repo, and see if there are any updates. If there aren't, you switch back to your development branch and continue.

If the master has been updated, then the first thing you want to do is merge those changes into your development branch. This insures that your development branch will not conflict with the master. You can then make your changes to your development line, saving (and pushing to the github copy of your branch, which acts as a nice distributed backup) when you like.

When you are ready to merge your changes into the master on your local machine, follow these steps:
1. Switch to your local master, and pull any updates from the github master. This will update your local master with any changes anyone else has put in. Do this even if you pulled from the master earlier in the day. If there are any updates, then merge these with your branch.
2. Merge your branch with your local master. Since you have just merged any changes in the local master with your branch, there shouldn't be any conflicts. 
3. Depending on your confidence level, either create a pull request from your master, or push to the github master. Since you have just pulled from the master, there shouldn't be any conflicts. 

We should all keep an eye on the pull requests. If there are any outstanding, we should review as soon as possible; if you want a particular person to review your request let that person know. 