Memo waldo180921.md

**Organization of the Repository and Data**

The directories that hold the code, documentation, and the data for the project will
be broken up into a set of directories, some of which are under revision control and 
some of which are not. This memo outlines the basic organization, at least for the start
of the project.

Note that there will be a shared Google drive that will contain all of these files. The 
shared drive will contain the master copies of all of our data, and will contain a clone of
the mainline of our code repository. If you are going to be making changes in either the
code or the data, do not do so in this directory. If you are working on code, you should
have a clone of the code in your own workspace, and merge your finished code into the mainline
in the Git repo. 

**Under Revision Control**

All of the work that will be saved and versioned under Github will live in the **Code** directory. This
obviously includes the code itself, but also includes the memos and individual notebooks for each of us.

Memos should reside in the Memos directory. They should be named following the convention last-name-of-writer+
date (so, for example, waldo180921). If someone writes multiple memos on the same day, they should be numbered
(after the first one); so this would be waldo180921-1, etc. The name of the file, along with a short description of the subject matter for the memo, should also be added to the TOC.md file (Table of Contents).

**Configuration Files**

Configuration files are in the directory Configs, and are not under configuration control. Note that the files with the work Key in them are security keys, and so should never be put under configuration control. If you need a copy, take it from the shared files.

Configuration files are .json files, which allows us to store them as dictionaries (for configuraiton entries that are key/value pairs) or as lists (for things like the filter values). This replaces an earlier, home-grown form of configuration file.
 
**Date Files**
The other top level directories will have to do with data, or configuration files used to collect the data. Configuration
files will reside in the directory ConfigFiles. These files include the filters we are using to select the tweets we grab,
as well as the credentials used to authenticate to twitter. 

**Data files** that are the result of the direct scraping of the twitter
stream will live in the directory Data; these files will have a name political_tweetsNYYYY-MM-DD.pkl. These files are already lists of thinned tweet objects, and correspond to those gathered for one of the subsets of the filters being used, with the number N showing the subset. These will be combined by the program merge_tweet_files.py into a single file for the day named comtined_tweets-YYYY-MM-dd.pkl, which is all of the tweets from the various files, with duplicates eliminated. 

When you work with these files, you should either copy them to your local directory, or only open them read-only. Opening them for write will delete the file, which is not what we want. These files are not under version control.
